{\rtf \li720 \fi-720 \sl240 \slmult1 \sa0 Aggerbeck, M., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Christidis, L., Fabre, P.-H., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., 2014. Resolving deep lineage divergences in core corvoid passerine birds supports a proto-Papuan island origin. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 70, 272\uc0\u8211{}285. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.09.027\
Aliabadian, M., Kaboli, M., Prodon, R., Nijman, V., Vences, M., 2007. Phylogeny of Palaearctic wheatears (genus Oenanthe)\uc0\u8212{}Congruence between morphometric and molecular data. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 42, 665\uc0\u8211{}675. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2006.08.018\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Barnes, K.N., Olsson, U., Barker, F.K., Bloomer, P., Khan, A.A., Qureshi, M.A., Guillaumet, A., Crochet, P.-A., Ryan, P.G., 2013. Multilocus phylogeny of the avian family Alaudidae (larks) reveals complex morphological evolution, non-monophyletic genera and hidden species diversity. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 69, 1043\uc0\u8211{}1056. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.06.005\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Cibois, A., Irestedt, M., Zuccon, D., Gelang, M., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Andersen, M.J., Moyle, R.G., Pasquet, E., Olsson, U., 2018a. Comprehensive molecular phylogeny of the grassbirds and allies (Locustellidae) reveals extensive non-monophyly of traditional genera, and a proposal for a new classification. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 127, 367\uc0\u8211{}375. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2018.03.029\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., H\uc0\u246{}hna, S., Gelang, M., Ericson, P.G., Olsson, U., 2011. Non-monophyly and intricate morphological evolution within the avian family Cettiidae revealed by multilocus analysis of a taxonomically densely sampled dataset. BMC Evol Biol 11, 352. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2148-11-352\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Hooper, D.M., Liu, Y., Olsson, U., Mohan, D., Gelang, M., Le Manh, H., Zhao, J., Lei, F., Price, T.D., 2014. Discovery of a relict lineage and monotypic family of passerine birds. Biol. Lett. 10, 20131067. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2013.1067\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., \uc0\u214{}deen, A., Ericson, P.G.P., Irestedt, M., 2015. Dramatic niche shifts and morphological change in two insular bird species. R. Soc. open sci. 2, 140364. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140364\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Mohammadi, Z., Enbody, E.D., Irestedt, M., Engelbrecht, D., Crochet, P.-A., Guillaumet, A., Rancilhac, L., Tieleman, B.I., Olsson, U., Donald, P.F., Stervander, M., 2023. Systematics of the avian family Alaudidae using multilocus and genomic data. Avian Research 14, 100095. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.avrs.2023.100095\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Rasmussen, P.C., Sangster, G., Dalvi, S., Round, P.D., Zhang, R., Yao, C., Irestedt, M., Le Manh, H., Lei, F., Olsson, U., 2020. Multiple species within the Striated Prinia {\i{}Prinia crinigera\uc0\u8211{}} Brown Prinia {\i{}P. polychroa} complex revealed through an integrative taxonomic approach. Ibis 162, 936\uc0\u8211{}967. https://doi.org/10.1111/ibi.12759\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Rasmussen, P.C., Xia, C., Gelang, M., Liu, Y., Chen, G., Zhao, M., Hao, Y., Zhao, C., Zhao, J., Yao, C., Eaton, J.A., Hutchinson, R., Lei, F., Olsson, U., 2018b. Taxonomy of the White-browed Shortwing (Brachypteryx montana) complex on mainland Asia and Taiwan: an integrative approach supports recognition of three instead of one species. Avian Res 9, 34. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40657-018-0125-6\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Rasmussen, P.C., Xia, C., Zhang, L., Liu, C., Magnusson, J., Shafaeipour, A., Olsson, U., 2021a. Morphology, vocalizations, and mitochondrial DNA suggest that the Graceful Prinia is two species. Ornithology 138, ukab014. https://doi.org/10.1093/ornithology/ukab014\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Rasmussen, P.C., Zhao, C., Xu, J., Dalvi, S., Cai, T., Guan, Y., Zhang, R., Kalyakin, M.V., Lei, F., Olsson, U., 2016. Integrative taxonomy of the Plain-backed Thrush (Zoothera mollissima) complex (Aves, Turdidae) reveals cryptic species, including a new species. Avian Res 7, 1. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40657-016-0037-2\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Rheindt, F.E., Zhang, R., Zhao, M., Wang, J., Zhu, X., Gwee, C.Y., Hao, Y., Ohlson, J., Jia, C., Prawiradilaga, D.M., Ericson, P.G.P., Lei, F., Olsson, U., 2018c. Complete species-level phylogeny of the leaf warbler (Aves: Phylloscopidae) radiation. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 126, 141\uc0\u8211{}152. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2018.03.031\
Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., van Linschooten, J., Donald, P.F., Sundev, G., Mohammadi, Z., Ghorbani, F., Shafaeipour, A., van den Berg, A., Robb, M., Aliabadian, M., Wei, C., Lei, F., Oxelman, B., Olsson, U., 2021b. Multiple species delimitation approaches applied to the avian lark genus {\i{}Alaudala}. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 154, 106994. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2020.106994\
Andersen, M.J., McCullough, J.M., Friedman, N.R., Peterson, A.T., Moyle, R.G., Joseph, L., Ny\uc0\u225{}ri, \uc0\u193{}.S., 2019. Ultraconserved elements resolve genus-level relationships in a major Australasian bird radiation (Aves: Meliphagidae). Emu - Austral Ornithology 119, 218\uc0\u8211{}232. https://doi.org/10.1080/01584197.2019.1595662\
Arbabi, T., Gonzalez, J., Wink, M., 2014. A re-evaluation of phylogenetic relationships within reed warblers (Aves: Acrocephalidae) based on eight molecular loci and ISSR profiles. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 78, 304\uc0\u8211{}313. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.05.026\
Armenta, J.K., Weckstein, J.D., Lane, D.F., 2005. Geographic Variation in Mitochondrial DNA Sequences of an Amazonian Nonpasserine: The Black-Spotted Barbet Complex. The Condor 107, 527\uc0\u8211{}536. https://doi.org/10.1093/condor/107.3.527\
Arshad, M., Gonzalez, J., El-Sayed, A.A., Osborne, T., Wink, M., 2009. Phylogeny and phylogeography of critically endangered Gyps species based on nuclear and mitochondrial markers. J Ornithol 150, 419\uc0\u8211{}430. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-008-0359-x\
Baker, A.J., Pereira, S.L., Paton, T.A., 2007. Phylogenetic relationships and divergence times of Charadriiformes genera: multigene evidence for the Cretaceous origin of at least 14 clades of shorebirds. Biology Letters 3, 205\uc0\u8211{}210. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2006.0606\
Barker, F.K., 2014. Mitogenomic data resolve basal relationships among passeriform and passeridan birds. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 79, 313\uc0\u8211{}324. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.06.011\
Barker, F.K., Burns, K.J., Klicka, J., Lanyon, S.M., Lovette, I.J., 2015. New insights into New World biogeography: An integrated view from the phylogeny of blackbirds, cardinals, sparrows, tanagers, warblers, and allies. The Auk 132, 333\uc0\u8211{}348. https://doi.org/10.1642/AUK-14-110.1\
Barker, F.K., Burns, K.J., Klicka, J., Lanyon, S.M., Lovette, I.J., 2013. Going to Extremes: Contrasting Rates of Diversification in a Recent Radiation of New World Passerine Birds. Systematic Biology 62, 298\uc0\u8211{}320. https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/sys094\
Barker, F.K., Cibois, A., Schikler, P., Feinstein, J., Cracraft, J., 2004. Phylogeny and diversification of the largest avian radiation. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 101, 11040\uc0\u8211{}11045. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0401892101\
Batista, R., Olsson, U., Andermann, T., Aleixo, A., Ribas, C.C., Antonelli, A., 2020. Phylogenomics and biogeography of the world\uc0\u8217{}s thrushes (Aves, {\i{}Turdus} ): new evidence for a more parsimonious evolutionary history. Proc. R. Soc. B. 287, 20192400. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2019.2400\
Benz, B.W., Robbins, M.B., 2011. Molecular phylogenetics, vocalizations, and species limits in Celeus woodpeckers (Aves: Picidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 61, 29\uc0\u8211{}44. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2011.05.001\
Benz, B.W., Robbins, M.B., Peterson, A.T., 2006. Evolutionary history of woodpeckers and allies (Aves: Picidae): Placing key taxa on the phylogenetic tree. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 40, 389\uc0\u8211{}399. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2006.02.021\
Beresford, P., Barker, F.K., Ryan, P.G., Crowe, T.M., 2005. African endemics span the tree of songbirds (Passeri): molecular systematics of several evolutionary \uc0\u8216{}enigmas.\uc0\u8217{} Proc. R. Soc. B. 272, 849\uc0\u8211{}858. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2004.2997\
Besnard, G., Bertrand, J.A.M., Delahaie, B., Bourgeois, Y.X.C., Lhuillier, E., Th\uc0\u233{}baud, C., 2016. Valuing museum specimens: high-throughput DNA sequencing on historical collections of New Guinea crowned pigeons ( {\i{}Goura} ): Valuing historical specimens with museomics. Biol. J. Linn. Soc. 117, 71\uc0\u8211{}82. https://doi.org/10.1111/bij.12494\
Blechschmidt, K., Peter, H-U., De Korte, J., Wink, M., Seibold, I., Helbig, A.J., n.d. Investigation on the molecular systematics of skuas (Stercorariidae). Zoologische JahrbiXcher Systematik, 120, 379-387.\
Boertmann, D., 1990. Phylogeny of the divers, family Gaviidae (Aves). Steenstrupia 16, 21\uc0\u8211{}36.\
Bonaccorso, E., Guayasamin, J.M., Peterson, A.T., Navarro\uc0\u8208{}Sig\uc0\u252{}enza, A.G., 2011. Molecular phylogeny and systematics of Neotropical toucanets in the genus {\i{}Aulacorhynchus} (Aves, Ramphastidae). Zoologica Scripta 40, 336\uc0\u8211{}349. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1463-6409.2011.00475.x\
Bridge, E.S., Jones, A.W., Baker, A.J., 2005. A phylogenetic framework for the terns (Sternini) inferred from mtDNA sequences: implications for taxonomy and plumage evolution. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 35, 459\uc0\u8211{}469. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2004.12.010\
Brumfield, R.T., Edwards, S.V., 2007. EVOLUTION INTO AND OUT OF THE ANDES: A BAYESIAN ANALYSIS OF HISTORICAL DIVERSIFICATION IN {\i{}THAMNOPHILUS} ANTSHRIKES: EVOLUTION INTO AND OUT OF THE ANDES. Evolution 61, 346\uc0\u8211{}367. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1558-5646.2007.00039.x\
Bruxaux, J., Gabrielli, M., Ashari, H., Pr\uc0\u375{}s-Jones, R., Joseph, L., Mil\uc0\u225{}, B., Besnard, G., Th\uc0\u233{}baud, C., 2018. Recovering the evolutionary history of crowned pigeons (Columbidae: Goura): Implications for the biogeography and conservation of New Guinean lowland birds. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 120, 248\uc0\u8211{}258. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2017.11.022\
Bryson, R.W., Chaves, J., Smith, B.T., Miller, M.J., Winker, K., P\uc0\u233{}rez\uc0\u8208{}Em\uc0\u225{}n, J.L., Klicka, J., 2014. Diversification across the New World within the \uc0\u8216{}blue\uc0\u8217{} cardinalids (Aves: Cardinalidae). Journal of Biogeography 41, 587\uc0\u8211{}599. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbi.12218\
Bryson, R.W., Faircloth, B.C., Tsai, W.L.E., McCormack, J.E., Klicka, J., 2016. Target enrichment of thousands of ultraconserved elements sheds new light on early relationships within New World sparrows (Aves: Passerellidae). The Auk 133, 451\uc0\u8211{}458. https://doi.org/10.1642/AUK-16-26.1\
Buainain, N., Ferreira, M., Avenda\uc0\u241{}o, J.E., Cadena, C.D., Faircloth, B.C., Brumfield, R.T., Cracraft, J., Ribas, C.C., 2022. Biogeography of a neotropical songbird radiation reveals similar diversification dynamics between montane and lowland clades. Journal of Biogeography 49, 1260\uc0\u8211{}1273. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbi.14379\
Burleigh, J.G., Kimball, R.T., Braun, E.L., 2015. Building the avian tree of life using a large-scale, sparse supermatrix. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 84, 53\uc0\u8211{}63. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.12.003\
Burns, K.J., Shultz, A.J., Title, P.O., Mason, N.A., Barker, F.K., Klicka, J., Lanyon, S.M., Lovette, I.J., 2014. Phylogenetics and diversification of tanagers (Passeriformes: Thraupidae), the largest radiation of Neotropical songbirds. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 75, 41\uc0\u8211{}77. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.02.006\
Cai, T., Cibois, A., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Moyle, R.G., Kennedy, J.D., Shao, S., Zhang, R., Irestedt, M., Ericson, P.G.P., Gelang, M., Qu, Y., Lei, F., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., 2019. Near-complete phylogeny and taxonomic revision of the world\uc0\u8217{}s babblers (Aves: Passeriformes). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 130, 346\uc0\u8211{}356. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2018.10.010\
Cai, T., Wu, G., Sun, L., Zhang, Y., Peng, Z., Guo, Y., Liu, X., Pan, T., Chang, J., Sun, Z., Zhang, B., 2021. Biogeography and diversification of Old World buntings (Aves: Emberizidae): radiation in open habitats. Journal of Avian Biology 52, jav.02672. https://doi.org/10.1111/jav.02672\
Campillo, L.C., Oliveros, C.H., Sheldon, F.H., Moyle, R.G., 2018. Genomic data resolve gene tree discordance in spiderhunters (Nectariniidae, Arachnothera). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 120, 151\uc0\u8211{}157. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2017.12.011\
Cerasale, D.J., Dor, R., Winkler, D.W., Lovette, I.J., 2012. Phylogeny of the Tachycineta genus of New World swallows: Insights from complete mitochondrial genomes. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 63, 64\uc0\u8211{}71. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2011.12.014\
\uc0\u268{}ern\uc0\u253{}, D., Natale, R., 2022. Comprehensive taxon sampling and vetted fossils help clarify the time tree of shorebirds (Aves, Charadriiformes). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 177, 107620. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2022.107620\
Chambers, G.K., Moeke, C., Steel, R., Trueman, J., 2009. Phylogenetic analysis of the 24 named albatross taxa based on full mitochondrial cytochrome b DNA sequences. Notornis.\
Chaves, J.A., Hidalgo, J.R., Klicka, J., 2013. Biogeography and evolutionary history of the {\scaps N} eotropical genus {\i{} {\scaps S} altator } ( {\scaps A} ves: {\scaps T} hraupini). Journal of Biogeography 40, 2180\uc0\u8211{}2190. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbi.12150\
Chen, D., Hosner, P.A., Dittmann, D.L., O\uc0\u8217{}Neill, J.P., Birks, S.M., Braun, E.L., Kimball, R.T., 2021. Divergence time estimation of Galliformes based on the best gene shopping scheme of ultraconserved elements. BMC Ecol Evo 21, 209. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12862-021-01935-1\
Chesser, R.T., Yeung, C.K.L., Yao, C.-T., Tian, X.-H., Li, S.-H., n.d. Molecular phylogeny of the spoonbills (Aves: Threskiornithidae) based on mitochondrial DNA.\
Cibois, A., Thibault, J., Pasquet, E., 2008. Systematics of the extinct reed warblers {\i{}Acrocephalus} of the Society Islands of eastern Polynesia. Ibis 150, 365\uc0\u8211{}376. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2008.00800.x\
Cibois, A., Thibault, J.-C., Bonillo, C., Filardi, C.E., Watling, D., Pasquet, E., 2014. Phylogeny and biogeography of the fruit doves (Aves: Columbidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 70, 442\uc0\u8211{}453. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.08.019\
Cicero, C., Mason, N.A., Benedict, L., Rising, J.D., 2020. Behavioral, morphological, and ecological trait evolution in two clades of New World Sparrows ( {\i{}Aimophila} and {\i{}Peucaea} , Passerellidae). PeerJ 8, e9249. https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.9249\
Claramunt, S., Cracraft, J., 2015. A new time tree reveals Earth history\uc0\u8217{}s imprint on the evolution of modern birds. Sci. Adv. 1, e1501005. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.1501005\
Corl, A., Ellegren, H., 2013. Sampling strategies for species trees: The effects on phylogenetic inference of the number of genes, number of individuals, and whether loci are mitochondrial, sex-linked, or autosomal. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 67, 358\uc0\u8211{}366. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.02.002\
Dantas, S.M., Weckstein, J.D., Bates, J.M., Krabbe, N.K., Cadena, C.D., Robbins, M.B., Valderrama, E., Aleixo, A., 2016. Molecular systematics of the new world screech-owls (Megascops: Aves, Strigidae): biogeographic and taxonomic implications. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 94, 626\uc0\u8211{}634. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.09.025\
Davies, Owen R, 2015. Taxonomy, phylogeny and biogeography of cisticolas (Cisticola spp.) [WWW Document]. URL https://open.uct.ac.za/items/d5644c7b-f4a8-4e30-a518-b6562c628ba3 (accessed 5.16.24).\
De Silva, T.N., Peterson, A.T., Perktas, U., 2019. An extensive molecular phylogeny of weaverbirds (Aves: Ploceidae) unveils broad nonmonophyly of traditional genera and new relationships. The Auk 136, ukz041. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/ukz041\
Den Tex, R.-J., Leonard, J.A., 2013. A molecular phylogeny of Asian barbets: Speciation and extinction in the tropics. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 68, 1\uc0\u8211{}13. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.03.004\
Derryberry, E.P., Claramunt, S., Derryberry, G., Chesser, R.T., Cracraft, J., Aleixo, A., P\uc0\u233{}rez-Em\uc0\u225{}n, J., Remsen Jr., J.V., Brumfield, R.T., 2011. LINEAGE DIVERSIFICATION AND MORPHOLOGICAL EVOLUTION IN A LARGE-SCALE CONTINENTAL RADIATION: THE NEOTROPICAL OVENBIRDS AND WOODCREEPERS (AVES: FURNARIIDAE): DIVERSIFICATION OF A CONTINENTAL RADIATION. Evolution 65, 2973\uc0\u8211{}2986. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1558-5646.2011.01374.x\
Divergence time estimation of Galliformes based on the best gene shopping scheme of ultraconserved elements | BMC Ecology and Evolution | Full Text [WWW Document], n.d. URL https://bmcecolevol.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12862-021-01935-1 (accessed 5.16.24).\
Donne-Gouss\uc0\u233{}, C., Laudet, V., H\uc0\u228{}nni, C., 2002. A molecular phylogeny of anseriformes based on mitochondrial DNA analysis. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 23, 339\uc0\u8211{}356. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1055-7903(02)00019-2\
Dor, R., Safran, R.J., Sheldon, F.H., Winkler, D.W., Lovette, I.J., 2010. Phylogeny of the genus Hirundo and the Barn Swallow subspecies complex. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 56, 409\uc0\u8211{}418. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2010.02.008\
Dos Remedios, N., Lee, P.L.M., Burke, T., Sz\uc0\u233{}kely, T., K\uc0\u252{}pper, C., 2015. North or south? Phylogenetic and biogeographic origins of a globally distributed avian clade. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 89, 151\uc0\u8211{}159. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.04.010\
Dufort, M.J., 2016. An augmented supermatrix phylogeny of the avian family Picidae reveals uncertainty deep in the family tree. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 94, 313\uc0\u8211{}326. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.08.025\
Dumbacher, J., 2003. Phylogeny of the owlet-nightjars (Aves: Aegothelidae) based on mitochondrial DNA sequence. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 29, 540\uc0\u8211{}549. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1055-7903(03)00135-0\
Dumbacher, J., Deiner, K., Thompson, L., Fleischer, R., 2008. Phylogeny of the avian genus Pitohui and the evolution of toxicity in birds. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 49, 774\uc0\u8211{}781. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.09.018\
Ericson, P.G., Klopfstein, S., Irestedt, M., Nguyen, J.M., Nylander, J.A., 2014. Dating the diversification of the major lineages of Passeriformes (Aves). BMC Evol Biol 14, 8. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2148-14-8\
Ericson, P.G.P., Irestedt, M., Nylander, J.A.A., Christidis, L., Joseph, L., Qu, Y., 2020. Parallel Evolution of Bower-Building Behavior in Two Groups of Bowerbirds Suggested by Phylogenomics. Systematic Biology 69, 820\uc0\u8211{}829. https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/syaa040\
Fain, M.G., Krajewski, C., Houde, P., 2007. Phylogeny of \uc0\u8220{}core Gruiformes\uc0\u8221{} (Aves: Grues) and resolution of the Limpkin\uc0\u8211{}Sungrebe problem. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 43, 515\uc0\u8211{}529. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2007.02.015\
Feinstein, J., Yang, X., Li, S., 2008. Molecular systematics and historical biogeography of the Black\uc0\u8208{}browed Barbet species complex ( {\i{}Megalaima oorti} ). Ibis 150, 40\uc0\u8211{}49. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2007.00732.x\
Fuchs, J., Chen, S., Johnson, J.A., Mindell, D.P., 2011. Pliocene diversification within the South American Forest falcons (Falconidae: Micrastur). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 60, 398\uc0\u8211{}407. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2011.05.008\
Fuchs, J., Johnson, J.A., Mindell, D.P., 2015. Rapid diversification of falcons (Aves: Falconidae) due to expansion of open habitats in the Late Miocene. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 82, 166\uc0\u8211{}182. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.08.010\
Fuchs, J., Johnson, J.A., Mindell, D.P., 2012. Molecular systematics of the caracaras and allies (Falconidae: Polyborinae) inferred from mitochondrial and nuclear sequence data. Ibis 154, 520\uc0\u8211{}532. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2012.01222.x\
Fuchs, J., Ohlson, J.I., Ericson, P.G.P., Pasquet, E., 2007. Synchronous intercontinental splits between assemblages of woodpeckers suggested by molecular data. Zoologica Scripta 36, 11\uc0\u8211{}25. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1463-6409.2006.00267.x\
Fuchs, J., Pons, J.-M., Goodman, S.M., Bretagnolle, V., Melo, M., Bowie, R.C., Currie, D., Safford, R., Virani, M.Z., Thomsett, S., Hija, A., Cruaud, C., Pasquet, E., 2008. Tracing the colonization history of the Indian Ocean scops-owls (Strigiformes: Otus) with further insight into the spatio-temporal origin of the Malagasy avifauna. BMC Evol Biol 8, 197. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2148-8-197\
Fulton, T.L., Letts, B., Shapiro, B., 2012. Multiple losses of flight and recent speciation in steamer ducks. Proc. R. Soc. B. 279, 2339\uc0\u8211{}2346. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2011.2599\
Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Deras, G.M., Cort\uc0\u233{}s-Rodr\uc0\u237{}guez, N., Honey, M., Navarro-Sig\uc0\u252{}enza, L.G., Garc\uc0\u237{}a-Moreno, J., Hern\uc0\u225{}ndez-Ba\uc0\u241{}os, B.E., n.d. Phylogenetic relationships within the genus Cynanthus (Aves: Trochilidae), with emphasis on C. doubledayi.\
Garc\uc0\u237{}a\uc0\u8211{}R, J.C., Gibb, G.C., Trewick, S.A., 2014. Eocene Diversification of Crown Group Rails (Aves: Gruiformes: Rallidae). PLoS ONE 9, e109635. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0109635\
Garcia-R, J.C., Lemmon, E.M., Lemmon, A.R., French, N., 2020. Phylogenomic Reconstruction Sheds Light on New Relationships and Timescale of Rails (Aves: Rallidae) Evolution. Diversity 12, 70. https://doi.org/10.3390/d12020070\
Garcia-R., J.C., Trewick, S.A., 2015. Dispersal and speciation in purple swamphens (Rallidae: {\i{}Porphyrio} ). The Auk 132, 140\uc0\u8211{}155. https://doi.org/10.1642/AUK-14-114.1\
Gavryushkina, A., Heath, T.A., Ksepka, D.T., Stadler, T., Welch, D., Drummond, A.J., 2016. Bayesian Total-Evidence Dating Reveals the Recent Crown Radiation of Penguins. Syst Biol syw060. https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/syw060\
Gibb, G.C., England, R., Hartig, G., McLenachan, P.A. (Trish), Taylor Smith, B.L., McComish, B.J., Cooper, A., Penny, D., 2015. New Zealand Passerines Help Clarify the Diversification of Major Songbird Lineages during the Oligocene. Genome Biol Evol 7, 2983\uc0\u8211{}2995. https://doi.org/10.1093/gbe/evv196\
Gibb, G.C., Shepherd, L.D., 2022. Recent evolution of extreme sexual dimorphism in the huia (Heteralocha acutirostris; Callaeidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 175, 107575. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2022.107575\
Gibson, R., Baker, A., 2012. Multiple gene sequences resolve phylogenetic relationships in the shorebird suborder Scolopaci (Aves: Charadriiformes). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 64, 66\uc0\u8211{}72. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2012.03.008\
Gonzalez, J., D\uc0\u252{}ttmann, H., Wink, M., 2009. Phylogenetic relationships based on two mitochondrial genes and hybridization patterns in Anatidae. Journal of Zoology 279, 310\uc0\u8211{}318. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-7998.2009.00622.x\
Gonzalez, J., Wink, M., 2008. Phylogenetic position of the monotypic Des Murs\uc0\u8217{} Wiretail (Sylviorthorhynchus desmursii, Aves: Furnariidae) based on mitochondrial and nuclear DNA. J Ornithol 149, 393\uc0\u8211{}398. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-007-0251-0\
Gonzalez, J.-C.T., Sheldon, B.C., Collar, N.J., Tobias, J.A., 2013. A comprehensive molecular phylogeny for the hornbills (Aves: Bucerotidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 67, 468\uc0\u8211{}483. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.02.012\
Han, K.-L., Robbins, M.B., Braun, M.J., 2010. A multi-gene estimate of phylogeny in the nightjars and nighthawks (Caprimulgidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 55, 443\uc0\u8211{}453. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2010.01.023\
Harris, R.B., Birks, S.M., Leach\uc0\u233{}, A.D., 2014a. Incubator birds: biogeographical origins and evolution of underground nesting in megapodes (Galliformes: Megapodiidae). Journal of Biogeography 41, 2045\uc0\u8211{}2056. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbi.12357\
Harris, R.B., Carling, M.D., Lovette, I.J., 2014b. THE INFLUENCE OF SAMPLING DESIGN ON SPECIES TREE INFERENCE: A NEW RELATIONSHIP FOR THE NEW WORLD CHICKADEES (AVES: {\i{}POECILE} ): SPECIES TREE INFERENCE IN CHICKADEES. Evolution 68, 501\uc0\u8211{}513. https://doi.org/10.1111/evo.12280\
Harvey, M.G., Bravo, G.A., Claramunt, S., Cuervo, A.M., Derryberry, G.E., Battilana, J., Seeholzer, G.F., McKay, J.S., O\uc0\u8217{}Meara, B.C., Faircloth, B.C., Edwards, S.V., P\uc0\u233{}rez-Em\uc0\u225{}n, J., Moyle, R.G., Sheldon, F.H., Aleixo, A., Smith, B.T., Chesser, R.T., Silveira, L.F., Cracraft, J., Brumfield, R.T., Derryberry, E.P., 2020. The evolution of a tropical biodiversity hotspot. Science 370, 1343\uc0\u8211{}1348. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaz6970\
Hooper, D.M., Olsson, U., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., 2016. The Rusty-tailed Flycatcher (Muscicapa ruficauda; Aves: Muscicapidae) is a member of the genus Ficedula. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 102, 56\uc0\u8211{}61. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2016.05.036\
Hosner, P.A., Braun, E.L., Kimball, R.T., 2016a. Rapid and recent diversification of curassows, guans, and chachalacas (Galliformes: Cracidae) out of Mesoamerica: Phylogeny inferred from mitochondrial, intron, and ultraconserved element sequences. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 102, 320\uc0\u8211{}330. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2016.06.006\
Hosner, P.A., Faircloth, B.C., Glenn, T.C., Braun, E.L., Kimball, R.T., 2016b. Avoiding Missing Data Biases in Phylogenomic Inference: An Empirical Study in the Landfowl (Aves: Galliformes). Mol Biol Evol 33, 1110\uc0\u8211{}1125. https://doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msv347\
Hruska, J.P., Holmes, J., Oliveros, C., Shakya, S., Lavretsky, P., McCracken, K.G., Sheldon, F.H., Moyle, R.G., 2023. Ultraconserved elements resolve the phylogeny and corroborate patterns of molecular rate variation in herons (Aves: Ardeidae). Ornithology 140, ukad005. https://doi.org/10.1093/ornithology/ukad005\
Hugall, A.F., Stuart-Fox, D., 2012. Accelerated speciation in colour-polymorphic birds. Nature 485, 631\uc0\u8211{}634. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11050\
Illera, J.C., Richardson, D.S., Helm, B., Atienza, J.C., Emerson, B.C., 2008. Phylogenetic relationships, biogeography and speciation in the avian genus Saxicola. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 48, 1145\uc0\u8211{}1154. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.05.016\
Imfeld, T.S., Barker, F.K., Brumfield, R.T., 2020. Mitochondrial genomes and thousands of ultraconserved elements resolve the taxonomy and historical biogeography of the Euphonia and Chlorophonia finches (Passeriformes: Fringillidae). The Auk 137, ukaa016. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/ukaa016\
Irestedt, M., Fuchs, J., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Ohlson, J.I., Pasquet, E., Ericson, P.G.P., 2008. The systematic affinity of the enigmatic Lamprolia victoriae (Aves: Passeriformes)\uc0\u8212{}An example of avian dispersal between New Guinea and Fiji over Miocene intermittent land bridges? Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 48, 1218\uc0\u8211{}1222. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.05.038\
Irestedt, M., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Christidis, L., Ericson, P.G., 2009. An unexpectedly long history of sexual selection in birds-of-paradise. BMC Evol Biol 9, 235. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2148-9-235\
Jetz, W., Thomas, G.H., Joy, J.B., Hartmann, K., Mooers, A.O., 2012. The global diversity of birds in space and time. Nature 491, 444\uc0\u8211{}448. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11631\
Jha, A., Seneviratne, S., Prayag, H.S., Vasudevan, K., 2021. Phylogeny identifies multiple colonisation events and Miocene aridification as drivers of South Asian bulbul (Passeriformes: Pycnonotidae) diversification. Org Divers Evol 21, 783\uc0\u8211{}794. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13127-021-00506-y\
Johansson, U.S., Ekman, J., Bowie, R.C.K., Halvarsson, P., Ohlson, J.I., Price, T.D., Ericson, P.G.P., 2013. A complete multilocus species phylogeny of the tits and chickadees (Aves: Paridae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 69, 852\uc0\u8211{}860. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.06.019\
Johansson, U.S., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Bowie, R.C.K., 2008. Phylogenetic relationships within Passerida (Aves: Passeriformes): A review and a new molecular phylogeny based on three nuclear intron markers. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 48, 858\uc0\u8211{}876. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.05.029\
Johansson, U.S., Irestedt, M., Qu, Y., Ericson, P.G.P., 2018. Phylogenetic relationships of rollers (Coraciidae) based on complete mitochondrial genomes and fifteen nuclear genes. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 126, 17\uc0\u8211{}22. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2018.03.030\
Johnson, J.A., Brown, J.W., Fuchs, J., Mindell, D.P., 2016. Multi-locus phylogenetic inference among New World Vultures (Aves: Cathartidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 105, 193\uc0\u8211{}199. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2016.08.025\
Johnson, K.P., Weckstein, J.D., Virrueta Herrera, S., Do\uc0\u241{}a, J., 2021. The interplay between host biogeography and phylogeny in structuring diversification of the feather louse genus Penenirmus. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 165, 107297. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107297\
Johnson, O., Howard, J.T., Brumfield, R.T., 2021. Systematics of a Neotropical clade of dead-leaf-foraging antwrens (Aves: Thamnophilidae; Epinecrophylla). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 154, 106962. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2020.106962\
J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Bowie, R.C.K., Moyle, R.G., Christidis, L., Filardi, C.E., Norman, J.A., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., 2008. Molecular phylogenetics and diversification within one of the most geographically variable bird species complexes Pachycephala pectoralis/melanura. Journal of Avian Biology 39, 473\uc0\u8211{}478. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.0908-8857.2008.04486.x\
J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Bowie, R.C.K., Moyle, R.G., Irestedt, M., Christidis, L., Norman, J.A., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., 2010. Phylogeny and biogeography of Oriolidae (Aves: Passeriformes). Ecography 33, 232\uc0\u8211{}241. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0587.2010.06167.x\
J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Fabre, P.-H., Kennedy, J.D., Holt, B.G., Borregaard, M.K., Rahbek, C., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., 2016. A supermatrix phylogeny of corvoid passerine birds (Aves: Corvides). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 94, 87\uc0\u8211{}94. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.08.020\
Joseph, L., Toon, A., Schirtzinger, E.E., Wright, T.F., 2011. Molecular systematics of two enigmatic genera Psittacella and Pezoporus illuminate the ecological radiation of Australo-Papuan parrots (Aves: Psittaciformes). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 59, 675\uc0\u8211{}684. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2011.03.017\
Kennedy, J.D., Marki, P.Z., Reeve, A.H., Blom, M.P.K., Prawiradilaga, D.M., Haryoko, T., Koane, B., Kamminga, P., Irestedt, M., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., 2022. Diversification and community assembly of the world\uc0\u8217{}s largest tropical island. Global Ecol Biogeogr 31, 1078\uc0\u8211{}1089. https://doi.org/10.1111/geb.13484\
Kennedy, M., Seneviratne, S.S., Mendis, U.K., Spencer, H.G., 2019. Sorting out the Snakebirds: The species status, phylogeny, and biogeography of the Darters (Aves: Anhingidae). J Zool Syst Evol Res 57, 892\uc0\u8211{}899. https://doi.org/10.1111/jzs.12299\
Kennedy, M., Spencer, H.G., 2014. Classification of the cormorants of the world. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 79, 249\uc0\u8211{}257. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.06.020\
Kennedy, M., Taylor, S.A., N\uc0\u225{}dvorn\uc0\u237{}k, P., Spencer, H.G., 2013. The phylogenetic relationships of the extant pelicans inferred from DNA sequence data. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 66, 215\uc0\u8211{}222. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2012.09.034\
Kimball, R.T., Mary, C.M.St., Braun, E.L., 2011. A Macroevolutionary Perspective on Multiple Sexual Traits in the Phasianidae (Galliformes). International Journal of Evolutionary Biology 2011, 1\uc0\u8211{}16. https://doi.org/10.4061/2011/423938\
Kimball, R.T., Oliveros, C.H., Wang, N., White, N.D., Barker, F.K., Field, D.J., Ksepka, D.T., Chesser, R.T., Moyle, R.G., Braun, M.J., Brumfield, R.T., Faircloth, B.C., Smith, B.T., Braun, E.L., 2019. A Phylogenomic Supertree of Birds. Diversity 11, 109. https://doi.org/10.3390/d11070109\
Kirchman, J.J., McInerney, N.R., Giarla, T.C., Olson, S.L., Slikas, E., Fleischer, R.C., 2022. Corrigendum to: Phylogeny based on ultra-conserved elements clarifies the evolution of rails and allies (Ralloidea) and is the basis for a revised classification. Ornithology 139, ukab065. https://doi.org/10.1093/ornithology/ukab065\
Klicka, J., Keith Barker, F., Burns, K.J., Lanyon, S.M., Lovette, I.J., Chaves, J.A., Bryson, R.W., 2014. A comprehensive multilocus assessment of sparrow (Aves: Passerellidae) relationships. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 77, 177\uc0\u8211{}182. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.04.025\
Krajewski, C., Sipiorski, J.T., Anderson, F.E., 2010. Complete Mitochondrial Genome Sequences and the Phylogeny of Cranes (Gruiformes: Gruidae). The Auk 127, 440\uc0\u8211{}452. https://doi.org/10.1525/auk.2009.09045\
Ksepka, D.T., Fordyce, R.E., Ando, T., Jones, C.M., 2012. New fossil penguins (Aves, Sphenisciformes) from the Oligocene of New Zealand reveal the skeletal plan of stem penguins. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 32, 235\uc0\u8211{}254. https://doi.org/10.1080/02724634.2012.652051\
Lamichhaney, S., Berglund, J., Alm\uc0\u233{}n, M.S., Maqbool, K., Grabherr, M., Martinez-Barrio, A., Promerov\uc0\u225{}, M., Rubin, C.-J., Wang, C., Zamani, N., Grant, B.R., Grant, P.R., Webster, M.T., Andersson, L., 2015. Evolution of Darwin\uc0\u8217{}s finches and their beaks revealed by genome sequencing. Nature 518, 371\uc0\u8211{}375. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature14181\
Lapiedra, O., Sayol, F., Garcia-Porta, J., Sol, D., 2021. Niche shifts after island colonization spurred adaptive diversification and speciation in a cosmopolitan bird clade. Proc. R. Soc. B. 288, 20211022. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2021.1022\
Lecroy, M., Barker, F.K., 2006. A New Species of Bush-warbler from Bougainville Island and a Monophyletic Origin for Southwest Pacific Cettia. Am Museum Novitates 3511, 1. https://doi.org/10.1206/0003-0082(2006)3511[1:ANSOBF]2.0.CO;2\
Lee, J.Y., Joseph, L., Edwards, S.V., 2012. A Species Tree for the Australo-Papuan Fairy-wrens and Allies (Aves: Maluridae). Systematic Biology 61, 253. https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/syr101\
Lerner, H.R.L., Klaver, M.C., Mindell, D.P., 2008. MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS OF THE BUTEONINE BIRDS OF PREY (ACCIPITRIDAE). The Auk 125, 304\uc0\u8211{}315. https://doi.org/10.1525/auk.2008.06161\
Lerner, H.R.L., Meyer, M., James, H.F., Hofreiter, M., Fleischer, R.C., 2011. Multilocus Resolution of Phylogeny and Timescale in the Extant Adaptive Radiation of Hawaiian Honeycreepers. Current Biology 21, 1838\uc0\u8211{}1844. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2011.09.039\
Liu, B., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Olsson, U., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Quan, Q., Roselaar, K.C.S., Saitoh, T., Yao, C., Hao, Y., Wang, W., Qu, Y., Lei, F., 2017. Explosive radiation and spatial expansion across the cold environments of the Old World in an avian family. Ecology and Evolution 7, 6346\uc0\u8211{}6357. https://doi.org/10.1002/ece3.3136\
Lovette, I.J., Arbogast, B.S., Curry, R.L., Zink, R.M., Botero, C.A., Sullivan, J.P., Talaba, A.L., Harris, R.B., Rubenstein, D.R., Ricklefs, R.E., Bermingham, E., 2012. Phylogenetic relationships of the mockingbirds and thrashers (Aves: Mimidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 63, 219\uc0\u8211{}229. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2011.07.009\
Lovette, I.J., McCleery, B.V., Talaba, A.L., Rubenstein, D.R., 2008. A complete species-level molecular phylogeny for the \uc0\u8220{}Eurasian\uc0\u8221{} starlings (Sturnidae: Sturnus, Acridotheres, and allies): Recent diversification in a highly social and dispersive avian group. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 47, 251\uc0\u8211{}260. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.01.020\
Lovette, I.J., P\uc0\u233{}rez-Em\uc0\u225{}n, J.L., Sullivan, J.P., Banks, R.C., Fiorentino, I., C\uc0\u243{}rdoba-C\uc0\u243{}rdoba, S., Echeverry-Galvis, M., Barker, F.K., Burns, K.J., Klicka, J., Lanyon, S.M., Bermingham, E., 2010. A comprehensive multilocus phylogeny for the wood-warblers and a revised classification of the Parulidae (Aves). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 57, 753\uc0\u8211{}770. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2010.07.018\
Lovette, I.J., Rubenstein, D.R., 2007. A comprehensive molecular phylogeny of the starlings (Aves: Sturnidae) and mockingbirds (Aves: Mimidae): Congruent mtDNA and nuclear trees for a cosmopolitan avian radiation. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 44, 1031\uc0\u8211{}1056. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2007.03.017\
Lutz, H.L., Weckstein, J.D., Patan\uc0\u233{}, J.S.L., Bates, J.M., Aleixo, A., 2013. Biogeography and spatio-temporal diversification of Selenidera and Andigena Toucans (Aves: Ramphastidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 69, 873\uc0\u8211{}883. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.06.017\
Manegold, A., 2008. Composition and phylogenetic affinities of vangas (Vangidae, Oscines, Passeriformes) based on morphological characters. Journal of Zoological Systematics and Evolutionary Research 46, 267\uc0\u8211{}277. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1439-0469.2008.00458.x\
Mann, N.I., Barker, F.K., Graves, J.A., Dingess-Mann, K.A., Slater, P.J.B., 2006. Molecular data delineate four genera of \uc0\u8220{}Thryothorus\uc0\u8221{} wrens. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 40, 750\uc0\u8211{}759. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2006.04.014\
Marki, P.Z., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Irestedt, M., Nguyen, J.M.T., Rahbek, C., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., 2017. Supermatrix phylogeny and biogeography of the Australasian Meliphagides radiation (Aves: Passeriformes). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 107, 516\uc0\u8211{}529. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2016.12.021\
Marks, B.D., Weckstein, J.D., Moyle, R.G., 2007. Molecular phylogenetics of the bee-eaters (Aves: Meropidae) based on nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequence data. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 45, 23\uc0\u8211{}32. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2007.07.004\
McCullough, J.M., Joseph, L., Moyle, R.G., Andersen, M.J., 2019a. Ultraconserved elements put the final nail in the coffin of traditional use of the genus {\i{}Meliphaga} (Aves: Meliphagidae). Zoologica Scripta 48, 411\uc0\u8211{}418. https://doi.org/10.1111/zsc.12350\
McCullough, J.M., Moyle, R.G., Smith, B.T., Andersen, M.J., 2019b. A Laurasian origin for a pantropical bird radiation is supported by genomic and fossil data (Aves: Coraciiformes). Proc. R. Soc. B. 286, 20190122. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2019.0122\
McCullough, J.M., Oliveros, C.H., Benz, B.W., Zenil-Ferguson, R., Cracraft, J., Moyle, R.G., Andersen, M.J., 2022. Wallacean and Melanesian Islands Promote Higher Rates of Diversification within the Global Passerine Radiation Corvides. Systematic Biology 71, 1423\uc0\u8211{}1439. https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/syac044\
McGuire, J.A., Witt, C.C., Remsen, J.V., Corl, A., Rabosky, D.L., Altshuler, D.L., Dudley, R., 2014. Molecular Phylogenetics and the Diversification of Hummingbirds. Current Biology 24, 910\uc0\u8211{}916. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2014.03.016\
Melo, M., Fuchs, J., 2008. Phylogenetic relationships of the Gulf of Guinea {\i{}Alcedo} kingfishers. Ibis 150, 633\uc0\u8211{}639. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2008.00826.x\
Mil\uc0\u225{}, B., Bruxaux, J., Friis, G., Sam, K., Ashari, H., Th\uc0\u233{}baud, C., 2021. A new, undescribed species of {\i{}Melanocharis} berrypecker from western New Guinea and the evolutionary history of the family Melanocharitidae. Ibis 163, 1310\uc0\u8211{}1329. https://doi.org/10.1111/ibi.12981\
Mitchell, K.J., Llamas, B., Soubrier, J., Rawlence, N.J., Worthy, T.H., Wood, J., Lee, M.S.Y., Cooper, A., 2014. Ancient DNA reveals elephant birds and kiwi are sister taxa and clarifies ratite bird evolution. Science 344, 898\uc0\u8211{}900. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1251981\
Mitchell, K.J., Wood, J.R., Llamas, B., McLenachan, P.A., Kardailsky, O., Scofield, R.P., Worthy, T.H., Cooper, A., 2016. Ancient mitochondrial genomes clarify the evolutionary history of New Zealand\uc0\u8217{}s enigmatic acanthisittid wrens. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 102, 295\uc0\u8211{}304. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2016.05.038\
Moltesen, M., Irestedt, M., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Ericson, P.G.P., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., 2012. Molecular phylogeny of Chloropseidae and Irenidae \uc0\u8211{} Cryptic species and biogeography. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 65, 903\uc0\u8211{}914. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2012.08.012\
Moncrieff, A.E., Faircloth, B.C., Brumfield, R.T., 2022. Systematics of Lepidothrix manakins (Aves: Passeriformes: Pipridae) using RADcap markers. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 173, 107525. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2022.107525\
Moore, W.S., Overton, L.C., Miglia, K.J., 2011. Mitochondrial DNA based phylogeny of the woodpecker genera Colaptes and Piculus, and implications for the history of woodpecker diversification in South America. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 58, 76\uc0\u8211{}84. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2010.09.011\
Moyle, R.G., 2006. A Molecular Phylogeny of Kingfishers (Alcedinidae) With Insights Into Early Biogeographic History. The Auk 123, 487\uc0\u8211{}499. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/123.2.487\
Moyle, R.G., 2005. Phylogeny and biogeographical history of Trogoniformes, a pantropical bird order: PHYLOGENY OF TROGONIFORMES. Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 84, 725\uc0\u8211{}738. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1095-8312.2005.00435.x\
Moyle, R.G., 2004. Phylogenetics of barbets (Aves: Piciformes) based on nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequence data. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 30, 187\uc0\u8211{}200. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1055-7903(03)00179-9\
Moyle, R.G., Andersen, M.J., Oliveros, C.H., Steinheimer, F.D., Reddy, S., 2012. Phylogeny and Biogeography of the Core Babblers (Aves: Timaliidae). Systematic Biology 61, 631\uc0\u8211{}651. https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/sys027\
Moyle, R.G., Chesser, R.T., Prum, R.O., Schikler, P., Cracraft, J., 2006a. Phylogeny and Evolutionary History of Old World Suboscine Birds (Aves: Eurylaimides). Am Museum Novitates 3544, 1. https://doi.org/10.1206/0003-0082(2006)3544[1:PAEHOO]2.0.CO;2\
Moyle, R.G., Cracraft, J., Lakim, M., Nais, J., Sheldon, F.H., 2006b. Reconsideration of the phylogenetic relationships of the enigmatic Bornean Bristlehead (Pityriasis gymnocephala). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 39, 893\uc0\u8211{}898. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2006.01.024\
Moyle, R.G., Marks, B.D., 2006. Phylogenetic relationships of the bulbuls (Aves: Pycnonotidae) based on mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequence data. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 40, 687\uc0\u8211{}695. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2006.04.015\
Moyle, R.G., Oliveros, C.H., Andersen, M.J., Hosner, P.A., Benz, B.W., Manthey, J.D., Travers, S.L., Brown, R.M., Faircloth, B.C., 2016. Tectonic collision and uplift of Wallacea triggered the global songbird radiation. Nat Commun 7, 12709. https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms12709\
Moyle, R.G., R., Fuchs, J., Pasquet, E., D. Marks, B., 2007. Feeding behavior, toe count, and the phylogenetic relationships among alcedinine kingfishers (Alcedininae). Journal of Avian Biology 38, 317\uc0\u8211{}326. https://doi.org/10.1111/J.2007.0908-8857.03921.x\
Moyle, R.G., Slikas, B., Whittingham, L.A., Winkler, D.W., Sheldon, F.H., 2008. DNA Sequence assessment of phylogenetic relationships among New World martins (Hirundinidae: Progne). The Wilson Journal of Ornithology 120, 683\uc0\u8211{}691. https://doi.org/10.1676/07-131.1\
Nagy, J., T\uc0\u246{}k\uc0\u246{}lyi, J., 2014. Phylogeny, Historical Biogeography and the Evolution of Migration in Accipitrid Birds of Prey (Aves: Accipitriformes). Ornis Hungarica 22, 15\uc0\u8211{}35. https://doi.org/10.2478/orhu-2014-0008\
Nagy, J., V\uc0\u233{}gv\uc0\u225{}ri, Z., Varga, Z., 2019. Phylogeny, migration and life history: filling the gaps in the origin and biogeography of the Turdus thrushes. J Ornithol 160, 529\uc0\u8211{}543. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-019-01632-3\
Nguembock, B., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Cruaud, C., Pasquet, E., 2008. Molecular phylogenetic analysis of all members of the genus {\i{}Elminia} confirms their presence within the Stenostiridae clade. Zoologica Scripta 37, 591\uc0\u8211{}602. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1463-6409.2008.00344.x\
Njabo, K.Y., Sorenson, M.D., 2009. Origin of Bannerman\uc0\u8217{}s Turaco {\i{}Tauraco bannermani} in relation to historical climate change and the distribution of West African montane forests. Ostrich 80, 1\uc0\u8211{}7. https://doi.org/10.2989/OSTRICH.2009.80.1.1.759\
Nov\uc0\u225{}kov\uc0\u225{}, N., Robovsk\uc0\u253{}, J., 2021. Behaviour of cranes (family Gruidae) mirrors their phylogenetic relationships. Avian Res 12, 40. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40657-021-00275-4\
Nunn, G.B., Stanley, S.E., 1998. Body size effects and rates of cytochrome b evolution in tube-nosed seabirds. Molecular Biology and Evolution 15, 1360\uc0\u8211{}1371. https://doi.org/10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a025864\
Ny\uc0\u225{}ri, \uc0\u193{}r.S., Benz, B.W., J\uc0\u248{}nsson, K.A., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Moyle, R.G., 2009. Phylogenetic relationships of fantails (Aves: Rhipiduridae). Zoologica Scripta 38, 553\uc0\u8211{}561. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1463-6409.2009.00397.x\
Nylander, J.A.A., Olsson, U., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Sanmart\uc0\u237{}n, I., 2008. Accounting for Phylogenetic Uncertainty in Biogeography: A Bayesian Approach to Dispersal-Vicariance Analysis of the Thrushes (Aves: Turdus). Systematic Biology 57, 257\uc0\u8211{}268. https://doi.org/10.1080/10635150802044003\
Oatley, G., Simmons, R.E., Fuchs, J., 2015. A molecular phylogeny of the harriers (Circus, Accipitridae) indicate the role of long distance dispersal and migration in diversification. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 85, 150\uc0\u8211{}160. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.01.013\
\uc0\u214{}deen, A., H\uc0\u229{}stad, O., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., 2011. Evolution of ultraviolet vision in the largest avian radiation - the passerines. BMC Evol Biol 11, 313. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2148-11-313\
Ogawa, L.M., Pulgarin, P.C., Vance, D.A., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Van Tuinen, M., 2015. Opposing demographic histories reveal rapid evolution in grebes (Aves: Podicipedidae). The Auk 132, 771\uc0\u8211{}786. https://doi.org/10.1642/AUK-14-259.1\
Ohlson, J.I., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Ericson, P.G.P., 2013. Molecular phylogeny of the manakins (Aves: Passeriformes: Pipridae), with a new classification and the description of a new genus. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 69, 796\uc0\u8211{}804. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.06.024\
Oliver, P.M., Heiniger, H., Hugall, A.F., Joseph, L., Mitchell, K.J., 2020. Oligocene divergence of frogmouth birds (Podargidae) across Wallace\uc0\u8217{}s Line. Biol. Lett. 16, 20200040. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2020.0040\
Oliveros, C.H., Andersen, M.J., Moyle, R.G., 2021. A phylogeny of white-eyes based on ultraconserved elements. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 164, 107273. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2021.107273\
Oliveros, C.H., Field, D.J., Ksepka, D.T., Barker, F.K., Aleixo, A., Andersen, M.J., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Benz, B.W., Braun, E.L., Braun, M.J., Bravo, G.A., Brumfield, R.T., Chesser, R.T., Claramunt, S., Cracraft, J., Cuervo, A.M., Derryberry, E.P., Glenn, T.C., Harvey, M.G., Hosner, P.A., Joseph, L., Kimball, R.T., Mack, A.L., Miskelly, C.M., Peterson, A.T., Robbins, M.B., Sheldon, F.H., Silveira, L.F., Smith, B.T., White, N.D., Moyle, R.G., Faircloth, B.C., 2019. Earth history and the passerine superradiation. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 116, 7916\uc0\u8211{}7925. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1813206116\
Olsson, U., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., 2020. A comprehensive phylogeny and taxonomic evaluation of the waxbills (Aves: Estrildidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 146, 106757. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2020.106757\
Olsson, U., Irestedt, M., Sangster, G., Ericson, P.G.P., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., 2013. Systematic revision of the avian family Cisticolidae based on a multi-locus phylogeny of all genera. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 66, 790\uc0\u8211{}799. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2012.11.004\
Ornelas, J.F., Gonz\uc0\u225{}lez, C., Espinosa De Los Monteros, A., 2009. Uncorrelated evolution between vocal and plumage coloration traits in the trogons: a comparative study. J of Evolutionary Biology 22, 471\uc0\u8211{}484. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1420-9101.2008.01679.x\
Ostrow, E.N., Catanach, T.A., Bates, J.M., Aleixo, A., Weckstein, J.D., 2023. Phylogenomic analysis confirms the relationships among toucans, toucan-barbets, and New World barbets but reveals paraphyly of {\i{}Selenidera} toucanets and evidence for mitonuclear discordance. Ornithology 140, ukad022. https://doi.org/10.1093/ornithology/ukad022\
Ottenburghs, J., Megens, H.-J., Kraus, R.H.S., Madsen, O., Van Hooft, P., Van Wieren, S.E., Crooijmans, R.P.M.A., Ydenberg, R.C., Groenen, M.A.M., Prins, H.H.T., 2016. A tree of geese: A phylogenomic perspective on the evolutionary history of True Geese. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 101, 303\uc0\u8211{}313. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2016.05.021\
Overton, L.C., Rhoads, D.D., 2004. Molecular phylogenetic relationships based on mitochondrial and nuclear gene sequences for the Todies ({\i{}Todus}, Todidae) of the Caribbean. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 32, 524\uc0\u8211{}538. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2004.01.004\
P\uc0\u228{}ckert, M., Favre, A., Schnitzler, J., Martens, J., Sun, Y., Tietze, D.T., Hailer, F., Michalak, I., Strutzenberger, P., 2020. \uc0\u8220{}Into and Out of\uc0\u8221{} the Qinghai\uc0\u8208{}Tibet Plateau and the Himalayas: Centers of origin and diversification across five clades of Eurasian montane and alpine passerine birds. Ecology and Evolution 10, 9283\uc0\u8211{}9300. https://doi.org/10.1002/ece3.6615\
P\uc0\u228{}ckert, M., Martens, J., Severinghaus, L.L., 2009. The Taiwan Firecrest (Regulus goodfellowi) belongs to the Goldcrest assemblage (Regulus regulus s. l.): evidence from mitochondrial DNA and the territorial song of the Regulidae. J Ornithol 150, 205\uc0\u8211{}220. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-008-0335-5\
P\uc0\u228{}ckert, M., Martens, J., Sun, Y., Severinghaus, L.L., Nazarenko, A.A., Ting, J., T\uc0\u246{}pfer, T., Tietze, D.T., 2012a. Horizontal and elevational phylogeographic patterns of Himalayan and Southeast Asian forest passerines (Aves: Passeriformes). Journal of Biogeography 39, 556\uc0\u8211{}573. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2699.2011.02606.x\
P\uc0\u228{}ckert, M., Martens, J., Wink, M., Feigl, A., Tietze, D.T., 2012b. Molecular phylogeny of Old World swifts (Aves: Apodiformes, Apodidae, Apus and Tachymarptis) based on mitochondrial and nuclear markers. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 63, 606\uc0\u8211{}616. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2012.02.002\
Parchman, T.L., Benkman, C.W., Mezquida, E.T., 2007. COEVOLUTION BETWEEN HISPANIOLAN CROSSBILLS AND PINE: DOES MORE TIME ALLOW FOR GREATER PHENOTYPIC ESCALATION AT LOWER LATITUDE? Evolution 61, 2142\uc0\u8211{}2153. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1558-5646.2007.00172.x\
Pasquet, E., Barker, F.K., Martens, J., Tillier, A., Cruaud, C., Cibois, A., 2014. Evolution within the nuthatches (Sittidae: Aves, Passeriformes): molecular phylogeny, biogeography, and ecological perspectives. J Ornithol 155, 755\uc0\u8211{}765. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-014-1063-7\
Patan\uc0\u233{}, J.S.L., Weckstein, J.D., Aleixo, A., Bates, J.M., 2009. Evolutionary history of Ramphastos toucans: Molecular phylogenetics, temporal diversification, and biogeography. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 53, 923\uc0\u8211{}934. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2009.08.017\
Patel, S., Weckstein, J.D., Patan\uc0\u233{}, J.S.L., Bates, J.M., Aleixo, A., 2011. Temporal and spatial diversification of Pteroglossus ara\uc0\u231{}aris (AVES: Ramphastidae) in the neotropics: Constant rate of diversification does not support an increase in radiation during the Pleistocene. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 58, 105\uc0\u8211{}115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2010.10.016\
Patterson, S.A., Morris-Pocock, J.A., Friesen, V.L., 2011. A multilocus phylogeny of the Sulidae (Aves: Pelecaniformes). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 58, 181\uc0\u8211{}191. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2010.11.021\
Payne, R.B., 2005. The Cuckoos, Bird Families of the World. Oxford University Press, Oxford, New York.\
Pereira, S.L., Baker, A.J., 2008. DNA evidence for a Paleocene origin of the Alcidae (Aves: Charadriiformes) in the Pacific and multiple dispersals across northern oceans. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 46, 430\uc0\u8211{}445. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2007.11.020\
Pereira, S.L., Baker, A.J., 2004. Vicariant Speciation of Curassows (Aves, Cracidae): A Hypothesis Based on Mitochondrial DNA Phylogeny. The Auk 121, 682\uc0\u8211{}694. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/121.3.682\
Pereira, S.L., Baker, A.J., Wajntal, A., 2002. Combined Nuclear and Mitochondrial DNA Sequences Resolve Generic Relationships within the Cracidae (Galliformes, Aves). Systematic Biology 51, 946\uc0\u8211{}958. https://doi.org/10.1080/10635150290102519\
Pereira, S.L., Johnson, K.P., Clayton, D.H., Baker, A.J., 2007. Mitochondrial and Nuclear DNA Sequences Support a Cretaceous Origin of Columbiformes and a Dispersal-Driven Radiation in the Paleogene. Systematic Biology 56, 656\uc0\u8211{}672. https://doi.org/10.1080/10635150701549672\
Pereira, S.L., Wajntal, A., 2008. The historical biogeography of Pteroglossus aracaris (Aves, Piciformes, Ramphastidae) based on Bayesian analysis of mitochondrial DNA sequences. Genet. Mol. Biol. 31, 964\uc0\u8211{}973. https://doi.org/10.1590/S1415-47572008005000021\
Pietersen, D.W., McKechnie, A.E., Jansen, R., Little, I.T., Bastos, A.D.S., 2019. Multi\uc0\u8208{}locus phylogeny of African pipits and longclaws (Aves: Motacillidae) highlights taxonomic inconsistencies. Ibis 161, 781\uc0\u8211{}792. https://doi.org/10.1111/ibi.12683\
Pitra, C., Lieckfeldt, D., Frahnert, S., Fickel, J., 2002. Phylogenetic Relationships and Ancestral Areas of the Bustards (Gruiformes: Otididae), Inferred from Mitochondrial DNA and Nuclear Intron Sequences. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 23, 63\uc0\u8211{}74. https://doi.org/10.1006/mpev.2001.1078\
Powell, A.F.L.A., Barker, F.K., Lanyon, S.M., Burns, K.J., Klicka, J., Lovette, I.J., 2014. A comprehensive species-level molecular phylogeny of the New World blackbirds (Icteridae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 71, 94\uc0\u8211{}112. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.11.009\
Price, T.D., Hooper, D.M., Buchanan, C.D., Johansson, U.S., Tietze, D.T., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Olsson, U., Ghosh-Harihar, M., Ishtiaq, F., Gupta, S.K., Martens, J., Harr, B., Singh, P., Mohan, D., 2014. Niche filling slows the diversification of Himalayan songbirds. Nature 509, 222\uc0\u8211{}225. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature13272\
Prum, R.O., Berv, J.S., Dornburg, A., Field, D.J., Townsend, J.P., Lemmon, E.M., Lemmon, A.R., 2015. A comprehensive phylogeny of birds (Aves) using targeted next-generation DNA sequencing. Nature 526, 569\uc0\u8211{}573. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature15697\
Pulgar\uc0\u237{}n-R, P.C., Smith, B.T., Bryson, R.W., Spellman, G.M., Klicka, J., 2013. Multilocus phylogeny and biogeography of the New World Pheucticus grosbeaks (Aves: Cardinalidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 69, 1222\uc0\u8211{}1227. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.05.022\
Quintero, E., Ribas, C.C., Cracraft, J., 2013. The Andean {\i{}Hapalopsittaca} parrots (Psittacidae, Aves): an example of montane\uc0\u8208{}tropical lowland vicariance. Zoologica Scripta 42, 28\uc0\u8211{}43. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1463-6409.2012.00567.x\
Ramirez, J.L., Miyaki, C.Y., Del Lama, S.N., 2013. Molecular phylogeny of Threskiornithidae (Aves: Pelecaniformes) based on nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. Genet. Mol. Res. 12, 2740\uc0\u8211{}2750. https://doi.org/10.4238/2013.July.30.11\
Reddy, S., 2008. Systematics and biogeography of the shrike-babblers (Pteruthius): Species limits, molecular phylogenetics, and diversification patterns across southern Asia. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 47, 54\uc0\u8211{}72. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.01.014\
Reddy, S., Kimball, R.T., Pandey, A., Hosner, P.A., Braun, M.J., Hackett, S.J., Han, K.-L., Harshman, J., Huddleston, C.J., Kingston, S., Marks, B.D., Miglia, K.J., Moore, W.S., Sheldon, F.H., Witt, C.C., Yuri, T., Braun, E.L., 2017. Why Do Phylogenomic Data Sets Yield Con\uc0\u64258{}icting Trees? Data Type In\uc0\u64258{}uences the Avian Tree of Life more than Taxon Sampling. SYSTEMATIC BIOLOGY 66.\
Rheindt, F.E., Norman, J.A., Christidis, L., 2008. Phylogenetic relationships of tyrant-flycatchers (Aves: Tyrannidae), with an emphasis on the elaeniine assemblage. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 46, 88\uc0\u8211{}101. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2007.09.011\
Ribas, C.C., Aleixo, A., Nogueira, A.C.R., Miyaki, C.Y., Cracraft, J., 2012. A palaeobiogeographic model for biotic diversification within Amazonia over the past three million years. Proc. R. Soc. B. 279, 681\uc0\u8211{}689. https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2011.1120\
Ribas, C.C., Joseph, L., Miyaki, C.Y., 2006. Molecular Systematics and Patterns of Diversification in Pyrrhura (Psittacidae), with Special Reference to the Picta-Leucotis Complex. The Auk 123, 660\uc0\u8211{}680. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/123.3.660\
Ribas, C.C., Miyaki, C.Y., Cracraft, J., 2009. Phylogenetic relationships, diversification and biogeography in Neotropical {\i{}Brotogeris} parakeets. Journal of Biogeography 36, 1712\uc0\u8211{}1729. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2699.2009.02131.x\
Rice, N.H., 2005. Phylogenetic Relationships of Antpitta Genera (Passeriformes: Formicariidae). The Auk 122, 673\uc0\u8211{}683. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/122.2.673\
Russello, M.A., Amato, G., 2004. A molecular phylogeny of Amazona: implications for Neotropical parrot biogeography, taxonomy, and conservation. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 30, 421\uc0\u8211{}437. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1055-7903(03)00192-1\
Salter, J.F., Hosner, P.A., Tsai, W.L.E., McCormack, J.E., Braun, E.L., Kimball, R.T., Brumfield, R.T., Faircloth, B.C., 2022. Historical specimens and the limits of subspecies phylogenomics in the New World quails (Odontophoridae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 175, 107559. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2022.107559\
Salter, J.F., Oliveros, C.H., Hosner, P.A., Manthey, J.D., Robbins, M.B., Moyle, R.G., Brumfield, R.T., Faircloth, B.C., 2020. Extensive paraphyly in the typical owl family (Strigidae). The Auk 137, ukz070. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/ukz070\
Scholes III, E., 2008. Evolution of the courtship phenotype in the bird of paradise genus Parotia (Aves: Paradisaeidae): homology, phylogeny, and modularity. Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 94, 491\uc0\u8211{}504. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1095-8312.2008.01012.x\
Schweizer, M., G\uc0\u252{}ntert, M., Hertwig, S.T., 2012. Phylogeny and biogeography of the parrot genus {\i{}Prioniturus} (Aves: Psittaciformes). Journal of Zoological Systematics and Evolutionary Research 50, 145\uc0\u8211{}156. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1439-0469.2012.00654.x\
Schweizer, M., Shirihai, H., 2013. Phylogeny of the Oenanthe lugens complex (Aves, Muscicapidae: Saxicolinae): Paraphyly of a morphologically cohesive group within a recent radiation of open-habitat chats. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 69, 450\uc0\u8211{}461. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2013.08.010\
Schweizer, M., Wright, T.F., Pe\uc0\u241{}alba, J.V., Schirtzinger, E.E., Joseph, L., 2015. Molecular phylogenetics suggests a New Guinean origin and frequent episodes of founder-event speciation in the nectarivorous lories and lorikeets (Aves: Psittaciformes). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 90, 34\uc0\u8211{}48. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.04.021\
Scofield, R.P., Mitchell, K.J., Wood, J.R., De Pietri, V.L., Jarvie, S., Llamas, B., Cooper, A., 2017. The origin and phylogenetic relationships of the New Zealand ravens. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 106, 136\uc0\u8211{}143. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2016.09.022\
Selvatti, A.P., Gonzaga, L.P., Russo, C.A.D.M., 2015. A Paleogene origin for crown passerines and the diversification of the Oscines in the New World. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 88, 1\uc0\u8211{}15. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.03.018\
Shakya, S.B., Fuchs, J., Pons, J.-M., Sheldon, F.H., 2017. Tapping the woodpecker tree for evolutionary insight. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 116, 182\uc0\u8211{}191. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2017.09.005\
Shakya, S.B., Irham, M., Brady, M.L., Haryoko, T., Fitriana, Y.S., Johnson, O., Rahman, M.A., Robi, N.J., Moyle, R.G., Prawiradilaga, D.M., Sheldon, F.H., 2020. Observations on the relationships of some Sundaic passerine taxa (Aves: Passeriformes) previously unavailable for molecular phylogenetic study. J Ornithol 161, 651\uc0\u8211{}664. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-020-01766-9\
Shakya, S.B., Sheldon, F.H., 2017. The phylogeny of the world\uc0\u8217{}s bulbuls (Pycnonotidae) inferred using a supermatrix approach. Ibis 159, 498\uc0\u8211{}509. https://doi.org/10.1111/ibi.12464\
Sheldon, F.H., Whittingham, L.A., Moyle, R.G., Slikas, B., Winkler, D.W., 2005a. Phylogeny of swallows (Aves: Hirundinidae) estimated from nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequences. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 35, 254\uc0\u8211{}270. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2004.11.008\
Sheldon, F.H., Whittingham, L.A., Moyle, R.G., Slikas, B., Winkler, D.W., 2005b. Phylogeny of swallows (Aves: Hirundinidae) estimated from nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequences. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 35, 254\uc0\u8211{}270. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2004.11.008\
Shipham, A., Schmidt, D.J., Joseph, L., Hughes, J.M., 2015. Phylogenetic analysis of the Australian rosella parrots (Platycercus) reveals discordance among molecules and plumage. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 91, 150\uc0\u8211{}159. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.05.012\
Slager, D.L., Battey, C.J., Bryson, R.W., Voelker, G., Klicka, J., 2014. A multilocus phylogeny of a major New World avian radiation: The Vireonidae. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 80, 95\uc0\u8211{}104. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2014.07.021\
Slikas, B., 1997. Phylogeny of the Avian Family Ciconiidae (Storks) Based on CytochromebSequences and DNA\uc0\u8211{}DNA Hybridization Distances. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 8, 275\uc0\u8211{}300. https://doi.org/10.1006/mpev.1997.0431\
Smith, B.T., Bryson, R.W., Mauck, W.M., Chaves, J., Robbins, M.B., Aleixo, A., Klicka, J., 2018. Species delimitation and biogeography of the gnatcatchers and gnatwrens (Aves: Polioptilidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 126, 45\uc0\u8211{}57. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2018.03.012\
Smith, B.T., Merwin, J., Provost, K.L., Thom, G., Brumfield, R.T., Ferreira, M., Mauck, W.M., Moyle, R.G., Wright, T.F., Joseph, L., 2023. Phylogenomic Analysis of the Parrots of the World Distinguishes Artifactual from Biological Sources of Gene Tree Discordance. Systematic Biology 72, 228\uc0\u8211{}241. https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/syac055\
Smith, B.T., Ribas, C.C., Whitney, B.M., Hern\uc0\u193{}ndez\uc0\u8208{}ba\uc0\u209{}os, B.E., Klicka, J., 2013. Identifying biases at different spatial and temporal scales of diversification: a case study in the Neotropical parrotlet genus {\i{}Forpus}. Molecular Ecology 22, 483\uc0\u8211{}494. https://doi.org/10.1111/mec.12118\
Spellman, G., Cibois, A., Moyle, R., Winker, K., Keithbarker, F., 2008. Clarifying the systematics of an enigmatic avian lineage: What is a bombycillid? Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 49, 1036\uc0\u8211{}1040. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2008.09.006\
Stein, R.W., Brown, J.W., Mooers, A.\uc0\u216{}., 2015. A molecular genetic time scale demonstrates Cretaceous origins and multiple diversification rate shifts within the order Galliformes (Aves). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 92, 155\uc0\u8211{}164. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.06.005\
Stervander, M., Hansson, B., Olsson, U., Hulme, M.F., Ottosson, U., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., 2020. Molecular Species Delimitation of Larks (Aves: Alaudidae), and Integrative Taxonomy of the Genus Calandrella, with the Description of a Range-Restricted African Relic Taxon. Diversity 12, 428. https://doi.org/10.3390/d12110428\
Stiller, J., Feng, S., Chowdhury, A.-A., Rivas-Gonz\uc0\u225{}lez, I., Duch\uc0\u234{}ne, D.A., Fang, Q., Deng, Y., Kozlov, A., Stamatakis, A., Claramunt, S., Nguyen, J.M.T., Ho, S.Y.W., Faircloth, B.C., Haag, J., Houde, P., Cracraft, J., Balaban, M., Mai, U., Chen, G., Gao, R., Zhou, C., Xie, Y., Huang, Z., Cao, Z., Yan, Z., Ogilvie, H.A., Nakhleh, L., Lindow, B., Morel, B., Fjelds\uc0\u229{}, J., Hosner, P.A., Da Fonseca, R.R., Petersen, B., Tobias, J.A., Sz\uc0\u233{}kely, T., Kennedy, J.D., Reeve, A.H., Liker, A., Stervander, M., Antunes, A., Tietze, D.T., Bertelsen, M.F., Lei, F., Rahbek, C., Graves, G.R., Schierup, M.H., Warnow, T., Braun, E.L., Gilbert, M.T.P., Jarvis, E.D., Mirarab, S., Zhang, G., 2024. Complexity of avian evolution revealed by family-level genomes. Nature. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-024-07323-1\
Subramanian, S., Beans-Pic\uc0\u243{}n, G., Swaminathan, S.K., Millar, C.D., Lambert, D.M., 2013. Evidence for a recent origin of penguins. Biol. Lett. 9, 20130748. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2013.0748\
Sweet, A.D., Johnson, K.P., 2015. Patterns of diversification in small New World ground doves are consistent with major geologic events. The Auk 132, 300\uc0\u8211{}312. https://doi.org/10.1642/AUK-14-193.1\
Tavares, E.S., Baker, A.J., Pereira, S.L., Miyaki, C.Y., 2006. Phylogenetic Relationships and Historical Biogeography of Neotropical Parrots (Psittaciformes: Psittacidae: Arini) Inferred from Mitochondrial and Nuclear DNA Sequences. Systematic Biology 55, 454\uc0\u8211{}470. https://doi.org/10.1080/10635150600697390\
Tietze, D.T., P\uc0\u228{}ckert, M., Martens, J., Lehmann, H., Sun, Y.-H., 2013. Complete phylogeny and historical biogeography of true rosefinches (Aves: {\i{}Carpodacus} ): Rosefinch Phylogeny and Historical Biogeography. Zool J Linn Soc 169, 215\uc0\u8211{}234. https://doi.org/10.1111/zoj.12057\
Torres, C.R., Ogawa, L.M., Gillingham, M.A., Ferrari, B., Van Tuinen, M., 2014. A multi-locus inference of the evolutionary diversification of extant flamingos (Phoenicopteridae). BMC Evol Biol 14, 36. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2148-14-36\
Treplin, S., Siegert, R., Bleidorn, C., Thompson, H.S., Fotso, R., Tiedemann, R., 2008. Molecular phylogeny of songbirds (Aves: Passeriformes) and the relative utility of common nuclear marker loci. Cladistics 24, 328\uc0\u8211{}349. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1096-0031.2007.00178.x\
Vianna, J.A., Fernandes, F.A.N., Frugone, M.J., Figueir\uc0\u243{}, H.V., Pertierra, L.R., Noll, D., Bi, K., Wang-Claypool, C.Y., Lowther, A., Parker, P., Le Bohec, C., Bonadonna, F., Wienecke, B., Pistorius, P., Steinfurth, A., Burridge, C.P., Dantas, G.P.M., Poulin, E., Simison, W.B., Henderson, J., Eizirik, E., Nery, M.F., Bowie, R.C.K., 2020. Genome-wide analyses reveal drivers of penguin diversification. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 117, 22303\uc0\u8211{}22310. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2006659117\
Voelker, G., 2002. Molecular phylogenetics and the historical biogeography of dippers ( {\i{}Cinclus} ). Ibis 144, 577\uc0\u8211{}584. https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1474-919X.2002.00084.x\
Voelker, G., Light, J.E., 2011. Palaeoclimatic events, dispersal and migratory losses along the Afro-European axis as drivers of biogeographic distribution in Sylvia warblers. BMC Evol Biol 11, 163. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2148-11-163\
Wang, N., Kimball, R.T., Braun, E.L., Liang, B., Zhang, Z., 2017. Ancestral range reconstruction of Galliformes: the effects of topology and taxon sampling. Journal of Biogeography 44, 122\uc0\u8211{}135. https://doi.org/10.1111/jbi.12782\
White, N.D., Braun, M.J., 2019. Extracting phylogenetic signal from phylogenomic data: Higher-level relationships of the nightbirds (Strisores). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 141, 106611. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2019.106611\
White, N.D., Mitter, C., Braun, M.J., 2017. Ultraconserved elements resolve the phylogeny of potoos (Aves: Nyctibiidae). Journal of Avian Biology 48, 872\uc0\u8211{}880. https://doi.org/10.1111/jav.01313\
White, N.E., Phillips, M.J., Gilbert, M.T.P., Alfaro-N\uc0\u250{}\uc0\u241{}ez, A., Willerslev, E., Mawson, P.R., Spencer, P.B.S., Bunce, M., 2011. The evolutionary history of cockatoos (Aves: Psittaciformes: Cacatuidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 59, 615\uc0\u8211{}622. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2011.03.011\
Whittingham, L.A., Sheldon, F.H., Emlen, S.T., 2000. Molecular Phylogeny of Jacanas and its Implications for Morphologic and Biogeographic Evolution. The Auk 117, 22\uc0\u8211{}32. https://doi.org/10.1093/auk/117.1.22\
Wood, J.R., Mitchell, K.J., Scofield, R.P., De Pietri, V.L., Rawlence, N.J., Cooper, A., 2016. Phylogenetic relationships and terrestrial adaptations of the extinct laughing owl, {\i{}Sceloglaux albifacies} (Aves: Strigidae). Zool J Linn Soc. https://doi.org/10.1111/zoj.12483\
Woog, F., Wink, M., Rastegar-Pouyani, E., Gonzalez, J., Helm, B., 2008. Distinct taxonomic position of the Madagascar stonechat (Saxicola torquatus sibilla) revealed by nucleotide sequences of mitochondrial DNA. J Ornithol 149, 423\uc0\u8211{}430. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-008-0290-1\
Wright, T.F., Schirtzinger, E.E., Matsumoto, T., Eberhard, J.R., Graves, G.R., Sanchez, J.J., Capelli, S., M\uc0\u252{}ller, H., Scharpegge, J., Chambers, G.K., Fleischer, R.C., 2008. A Multilocus Molecular Phylogeny of the Parrots (Psittaciformes): Support for a Gondwanan Origin during the Cretaceous. Molecular Biology and Evolution 25, 2141\uc0\u8211{}2156. https://doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msn160\
Wu, S., Rheindt, F.E., Zhang, J., Wang, J., Zhang, L., Quan, C., Li, Z., Wang, M., Wu, F., Qu, Y., Edwards, S.V., Zhou, Z., Liu, L., 2024. Genomes, fossils, and the concurrent rise of modern birds and flowering plants in the Late Cretaceous. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 121, e2319696121. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2319696121\
Yonezawa, T., Segawa, T., Mori, H., Campos, P.F., Hongoh, Y., Endo, H., Akiyoshi, A., Kohno, N., Nishida, S., Wu, J., Jin, H., Adachi, J., Kishino, H., Kurokawa, K., Nogi, Y., Tanabe, H., Mukoyama, H., Yoshida, K., Rasoamiaramanana, A., Yamagishi, S., Hayashi, Y., Yoshida, A., Koike, H., Akishinonomiya, F., Willerslev, E., Hasegawa, M., 2017. Phylogenomics and Morphology of Extinct Paleognaths Reveal the Origin and Evolution of the Ratites. Current Biology 27, 68\uc0\u8211{}77. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2016.10.029\
Younger, J., Block, N., Raherilalao, M.J., Maddox, J.D., Wacker, K., Kyriazis, C., Goodman, S., Reddy, S., 2019. Diversification of a cryptic radiation, a closer look at Madagascar\uc0\u8217{}s recently recognized bird family. https://doi.org/10.1101/825687\
Zhang, Z., Wang, X., Huang, Y., Olsson, U., Martinez, J., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Lei, F., 2016. Unexpected divergence and lack of divergence revealed in continental Asian Cyornis flycatchers (Aves: Muscicapidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 94, 232\uc0\u8211{}241. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2015.08.024\
Zhao, M., Gordon Burleigh, J., Olsson, U., Alstr\uc0\u246{}m, P., Kimball, R.T., 2023. A near-complete and time-calibrated phylogeny of the Old World flycatchers, robins and chats (Aves, Muscicapidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 178, 107646. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2022.107646\
Zhou, X., Yao, C., Lin, Q., Fang, W., Chen, X., 2016. Complete mitochondrial genomes render the Night Heron genus Gorsachius non-monophyletic. J Ornithol 157, 505\uc0\u8211{}513. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10336-015-1297-z\
Zink, R.M., Blackwell, R.C., 1998. Molecular Systematics and Biogeography of Aridland Gnatcatchers (GenusPolioptila) and Evidence Supporting Species Status of the California Gnatcatcher (Polioptila californica). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 9, 26\uc0\u8211{}32. https://doi.org/10.1006/mpev.1997.0444\
Zink, R.M., Dittmann, D.L., Klicka, J., Blackwell-Rago, R.C., 1999. Evolutionary Patterns of Morphometrics, Allozymes, and Mitochondrial DNA in Thrashers (Genus Toxostoma). The Auk 116, 1021\uc0\u8211{}1038. https://doi.org/10.2307/4089682\
Zino, F., Brown, R., Biscoito, M., 2008. The separation of {\i{}Pterodroma madeira} (Zino\uc0\u8217{}s Petrel) from {\i{}Pterodroma feae} (Fea\uc0\u8217{}s Petrel) (Aves: Procellariidae). Ibis 150, 326\uc0\u8211{}334. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2007.00794.x\
Zuccon, D., Cibois, A., Pasquet, E., Ericson, P.G.P., 2006. Nuclear and mitochondrial sequence data reveal the major lineages of starlings, mynas and related taxa. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 41, 333\uc0\u8211{}344. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2006.05.007\
Zuccon, D., Pr\uc0\u375{}s-Jones, R., Rasmussen, P.C., Ericson, P.G.P., 2012. The phylogenetic relationships and generic limits of finches (Fringillidae). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 62, 581\uc0\u8211{}596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2011.10.002\
Zwiers, P.B., Borgia, G., Fleischer, R.C., 2008. Plumage based classification of the bowerbird genus Sericulus evaluated using a multi-gene, multi-genome analysis. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 46, 923\uc0\u8211{}931. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ympev.2007.11.019\
}